Correct combination regarding tissue - location in the human body.
Which one of the following units of measurement is usually used to indicate the size of virus?
Restriction endonuclease enzymes are capable of
If F2 generation of a monohybrid cross shows 1:2:1 ratio for both the phenotypes and genotypes,the type of inheritance
Not a function performed by human hypothalamus,
Which of the following statement is incorrect regarding human kidney?
Which of the following 'structure-function' combinations is incorrect?
Which of the following terrestrial biomes shows the least variation in temperature?
Which one of the following is correct regarding the energy flow in the biosphere?
Correct statement regarding immunity in animals.
Proteins and lipids combine with polysaccharides in,
Essential to the detachment of myosin head from cross bridge in skeletal muscle contraction.
Incorrect statement regarding blood clotting?
Correct comparisons regarding fungi and their characters.
In which of the following responses, the hormone and its main function are correctly matched?
Which of the following may be present in a bilaterally symmetrical coelomic animal with tentacles and without a ventral heart?
Transport of water and minerals in plants
Elements that show deficiency symptom as wilting
Down's syndrome in man is caused by
Which one of the following statements regarding the end products of nitrogenous excretion is correct?
Which of the following statement regarding water potential is incorrect?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding skeletal muscle?
Mernstematic cells
Which of the following statements regarding human male reproductive system is correct?
Correct regarding regulation of ventilation in human lungs.
The following events take place in the mitosis. a-Microtubules attached to kinetochore get shorten and pull sister chromatids, b-Spindle microtubules get depolymerized, c-Kinetochore attaches the sister chromatids of each chromosome, d-Each chromosome attached to the kinetochore microtubule at the centromere.,e-Chromosomal arms of the sister chromatids attached by proteins called cohesion. Correct sequential order.
Shoot apical meristem
Correct statement regarding the associated glands of the alimentary canal.
Select the incorrect statement regarding the proximal convoluted tubule of human nephron.
Which one of the following may not occur due to overuse of water in agriculture?
Food preservation is based on the following principles. a - Prevention of entry of microorganisms into food, b - Prevention of growth and activity of microorganisms in food, c - Removal or killing of microorganisms in food. Canning of food is based on which of the above principles?
Select the incorrect statement regarding human growth hormone.
Correct statement regarding translation process of protein synthesis,
Select the correct statement regarding action potential of a human neurone,
Which of the following is incorrect regarding prions?
Which of the following is not an environmental service value of biodiversity?
Which one of the following is not a part of the apoplast of a plant?
Which of the following statements regarding microorganisms is correct?
Which of the following is correct regarding prokaryotic organisms?
Correct statements regarding human brain.
Structure that is found in bulk feeders for feeding
Incorrect statement regarding nerve cells
Which of the following statements regarding lipids is correct?
Which of the following is correct regarding prokaryotic organisms?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding action potential?
Of the ollowing groups of organisms, which one became extinct first?
Which of the following biomes are present between the equator and tropic of cancer of the earth?
Which of the following statements regarding homoeostasis in man is incorrect?
Can be used to distinguish Domain Bacteria from Domain Archaea.
In which of the following, will the release of (i) result in the stimulation of (ii). A : (i) Gastrin (ii) Production of gastric juice, B : (i) Cholecystokinin (ii) Secretion of gastric juice, C : (i) Secretin - (ii) Release of bicarbonate ions from pancreas
Which of the following biomes are present between the equator and tropic of cancer of the earth?
Select the correct statement regarding human skeletal muscle fibres.
Plants which show heteromorphic alternation of generations always
A character is not found in gymnosperms and angiosperms but found in a vascular plant,
A character is not found in gymnosperms and angiosperms but found in a vascular plant,
Dry patana grasslands in Sri Lanka are found in
A response to the moderate soil salinity.
Correct statement regarding non-vascular plants.
Which of the following statements regarding excretion is correct?
In human scapula,
Live both in fresh and marine water,Unicellular,Containing cell wall. Which one of the following protist can be shown the above characters?
Select the incorrect statement regarding human growth hormone.
Which one of the following substances in plants has mainly a storage function?
Select the correct statement regarding human ear,
Which of the following is not a current application of genetic engineering in plants?
In which of the following responses, the hormone and its main function are correctly matched?
Which one of the following is correct regarding tropical rain forests in Sri Lanka?
Correct regarding accommodation of eye.
Correct statement regarding immunity in animals.
Mictoorganisms were first observed and wconted by
Which of the following responses indicates the biomes in increasing order of average annual rainfall/precipitation?
Which of the following responses indicates the biomes in increasing order of average annual rainfall/precipitation?
In man, 2 thoracic vertebra can be distinguished from other vertebrae due to
In which of the following, is (ii) caused by (i) during the homeostatic control of breathing of man?. A : (i) Carbon dioxide level in tissues increases. (ii) Blood pH decreases., B : (i) Medulla oblongata detects decreasing pH of cerebrospinal fluid. (ii) Depth of ventilation of lungs decreases., C : (i) Sensors in aorta detects high concentration of carbon dioxide in blood.(ii) Medulla oblongata receives signals from aorta.
Which one of the following combinations of chemical elements often limit primary productivity of terrestrial, agricultural ecosystem?
Oxygen taken up during aerobic respiration in living organism in incorporate into
Which of the following is incorrect regarding the role of Mg in plant nutrition?
Select the correct statement regarding human ovum
Incorrect statement regarding DNA.
An enzyme that facilitates the action of DNA polymerase in DNA replication.
Passive movement of water and hydrophilic solutes across membranes with the help of transport proteins is called
Select the correct statement regarding nutritional requirements of plants.
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding smooth muscles?
Which of the following is an incorrect statement?
Which of the following factors least affects the rate of transpiration in plants?
Select the incorrect statement regarding reproduction of human males.
Which of the following elements is not a micronutrient?
Select the incorrect statement regarding reproduction of human males.
Which of the following statements regarding plant growth substances is incorrect?
Excretory structures of crustaceans, annelids and flat worms are respectively
Incorrect - comparison.
Which of the following is the incorrect statement regarding respiration of animals?
Which ane of the following biological molecules is not a polymer?
In human woman
Which of the following is incorrect regarding living characteristics of organisms?
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding secondary curvatures of the human vertebral column?
Incorrect statement regarding respiratory process in human
Correct statement regarding human respiratory system.
Which of the following statements is incorrect?
Select the incorrect statement regarding excretion.
Which of the following is incorrect regarding inbreeding?
In a compound light microscope,
A non-vascularized respiratory structure is found in
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding human luteinizing hormone?
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding smooth muscles?
Correct statement regarding fermentations.
Select the correct statement regarding thigmotropism.
Correct statement regarding immunity in animals.
In sex linked inheritance of humans,
Clearing of forests contributes to
In women, meiotic division of the secondary oocyte released at ovulation is arrested at
Which of the following animal- excretory product combination is correct?
Occurrence of Down syndrome is due to
a-Duplication of centrosomes,  b-Chromosomes become less condense to form chromatin, c-Formation of mitotic spindle, d-Cell elongates as the non-kinetochore microtubules are lengthen, e-Chromosomes move back and forth. The above are events of a eukaryotic cell cycle. Correct sequence of the above.
Human lymphatic system,
Exoskeleton in animals,
Which of the following is considered the major reason which led to the increase in CO2 concentration in the atmosphere during the last century?
Organism does not show fragmentation,
Correct statement regarding human upper limb.
A plant growth substance that enhance the rate of senescence of leaf,
Correct combination regarding sterilization methods - materials.
Which of the following is found both in pancreatic juice and intestinal juice?
Translation of eukaryotes differs from that of prokaryotes because it
Which one of the following statements regarding menstrual cycle is incorrect?
Select the correct statement regarding human lactation and milk.
A genotype consisting of only one type of alleles/identical alleles for a character is
Special character found only in pterophytes,
In which of the following responses, the hormone and its main function are correctly matched?
Which of the following statements regarding phloem transport is incorrect?
Cannot be find in open circulatory system and can be find in closed circulatory system.
Which of the following is correct regarding circulatory systems of animals?
Which of the following responses indicates the biomes in increasing order of average annual rainfall/precipitation?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding inbreeding?
Which of the following is mot a part of the conducting system of human heart?
In humans, voluntary muscular movements are coordinated by
In human woman
Members of the Domain Archaea
In DNA replication, the enzyme which removes DNA - RNA hybrids
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding enzymes?
Incorrect statement regarding photosynthesis,
Which one of the following tissue types found abundantly in the animal body?
Examples for plants showing homospory are
Three animals that live in tundra are
Which of the following statement regarding male reproductive system of human is incorrect?
Smooth muscles
Which of the following is incorrect regarding the leaves of Zea mays?
Which of the following structures can be seen in annelids as well as in arthropods?
Correct statement regarding binomial nomenclature of organisms,
Which of the following is not considered an ex-situ conservation method?
Osmosis
In mitosis, the movement of chromosomes from the equatorial plane to the poles occur during
Select the correct statement regarding human hormones.
Which of the following is incorrect?
Which of the following organisms Is responsible for Infections due to the production of endotoxins in food spoilage?
WHich one of the following statements is true regarding an endemic species?
Which one of the following contains the highest percentage of non-living cells?
The base Adenine (A) of DNA of an organism forms 23.3% of its composition. Which of the followin is the most likely base composition of its DNA?
Which of the following plant growth substances prevents leaf fall?
Which of the following statements is incorrect?
Which of the following is correct regarding circulatory systems of animals?
A function common to both rough endoplasmic reticulum and smooth endoplasmic reticulum is,
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding animal skeletal systems?
During the pregnancy,
The source of oxygen which acts as the terminal electron acceptor in the electron transport chain of aerobic organisms is.
Which of the following statements regarding excretion is incorrect?
Cannot be find in open circulatory system and can be find in closed circulatory system.
Which of the statements in the following comparison between Calvin's cycle and Kreb's cycle is incorrect?
Which of the following is a step in the primary treatment of purification of industrial waste water?
A secretion which is secreted by prostate gland for nutrition
Which of the following contribute to opening of stomata? A - Increase in turgor in guard cells, B - Production of Abscisic aci,C - Flow of water from guard cells into substomatal cavity,D - Accumulation of K* in guard cells
Contribution of axial skeleton to the upright posture.
The person who classified plants according to hierarchical levels of species, genus, order and class.
Which of the following statement is correct regarding inheritance of X linked chromosomes?
Which one of the following statements regarding the action potential of a neurone is incorrect?
In human, voluntary muscles are controlled by
Which of the following Acts and Conventions has helped most to protect the environment of Sri Lanka?
Which of the following structures can be seen in Phylum Mollusca as well as in Phylum Platyhelminthes?
Select the correct statement regarding circulatory system of animals.
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding a bacterial plasmid?
The number of cytosine bases in a DNA fragment which has ten complete turns and consists the ratio of adenine: guanine is 2:3.
In man, a pair of sverse processes can be seen in
Part of the antigen which can join with the special antigenic receptor molecule of T and B lymphocyte.
One of the target organs of cholecystokinin
Select the correct 'subcellular component - function' combination.
This question is based on the blood circulatory systems of the following animals. a. Turtle, b. Slug, c. Ichthyophis, d. Cockroach, e. Octopus, f. Spider, g. Nereis. Which of the above animals have an open blood circulatory system?
Dissolving of solutes in water
Considering the hierarchical levels of organization given below, select the answer set to the ascending order by their complexity? a-Cells, b-Organelles, c-Organ systems, d-Community 
Which of the following statements regarding homoeostasis in man is incorrect?
A characteristic feature of fungi is
A student observed an animal with one pair of antennae, and one pair of appendages in each segment of the body. This animal belongs to class
Characteristics of two plant cells named P and Q are given below, Cell P: Thick secondary cell wall, isodiametric, pits in cell wall, large lumen, Cell Q: Thick secondary cell wall, not isodiametric, no pits in cell wall, narrow lumen. The cells P and Q are respectively
Each of the following features can be seen in some of the groups of Kingdom Plantae. A-Heterosporous, B-Presence of xylem vessel elements, C-Dominant gametophyte, D-Need of external water for fertilization. When each of the above features are arranged as seen only in one, two, three and four groups of Kingdom Plantae. The correct sequence is
Which of the following organelles in plant cells converts fats into carbohydrates?
a-Puntius nigrofasciatus, b-Ichthyophis glutinosus, c-Elephus maximus, d-Oecophyla smaragdina, e-Chloroxylon swietenia. From the above organisms.
the antibiotic erythromycin destroys bacteria by
Select the correct statement regarding circulatory system of animals.
The hydrolysis of one molecule of sucrose produces
Which of the following is common to lactic acid fermentation, alcoholic fermentation and aerobic respiration?
Pollen tube
Which of the following can be considered as an adaptation?
a-Puntius nigrofasciatus, b-Ichthyophis glutinosus, c-Elephus maximus, d-Oecophyla smaragdina, e-Chloroxylon swietenia. From the above organisms.
Proteins
Which of the following 'structure-function' combinations is incorrect?
Some plant hormones are given below. A - Abscisic acid, B - Cytokinins, C - Ethylene, D - Gibberellins Of the above hormones, leaf senescence is promoted by
Which is incorrect regarding members of kingdom Plantae?
Three gases that contribute to acid rain, global warming and ozone layer depletion are respectively
The plant phylum having the least developed gametophytes.
Seed of a fruit is developed from
Structure / character found in all molluskas,
Select the correct statement regarding breast milk
During the gametogenesis of a particular person, a gamete with 24 chromosomes was produced. This gamete was fertilized with a normal gamete and a child was born. Which of the following best explains this process and its result?
Agar is added to microblological culture media
Select the incorrect statement regarding human epididymis.
Select the response with the correct match of the hormone and its main function.
In eukaryotic cells, in addition to nucleus, DNA is present in
Correct regarding Nephrolepis ?
Consequence of global warming and climatic changes to our country.
Water moves in the apoplastic path way
Which of the following statements regarding microscopes is correct?
Which onc of the following features of the DNA molecule determines the genetic information specific for a character?
Select the correct statement regarding sensory receptors of man
A unicellular protist without flagella
In which one of the following structures does meiosis take place?
A woman whose husband is normal gave birth to a son who is colour blind. What is the probability that their next child will be colour blind? 3
Which of the following is not common both to aerobic and anaerobic respiration?
In man, simple squamous epithelial cells are found in
Four respiratory volumes of a resting person are as follows. Inspiratory reserve volume = 2500 ml , Tidal volume = 450 ml,Expiratory reserve volume = 1450 ml , Residual volume = 1100 ml. Inspiratory capacity, functional residual capacity and vital capacity of this person in correct sequence are
Many pathogenic bacteria produce toxins which disrupt normal function of cells during an infection. Which of the following bacteria produces a neurotoxin?
Which of the following occurs during inspiration?
Stimulation of the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system in human
Which of the following statement is correct?
Which of the following does not occur in the chloroplast during the light reaction of photosynthesis?
Incorrect regarding transport of phloem tissues
Select the incorrect statement regarding the proximal convoluted tubule of human nephron.
Can be used to distinguish Domain Bacteria from Domain Archaea.
Some categories of species considered in the study of biodiversity are. A - Relict species, B - Keystone species, C - Endemic species, D - Flagship species Which one of the following sequences of organisms gives the correct examples for the categories in A, B, C and D?
Select the correct statement regarding human skeletal system.
Which of the following statements regarding classification of organisms is correct?
During the opening of stomata
Which of the following is the correct pathway of light and nerve impulses for the vision of humans?
Which of the following statement is correct regarding sexual reproduction of terrestrial plants?
Number of bones found in human face.
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding smooth muscles?
Which of the following biomes are present between the equator and tropic of cancer of the earth?
In which of the following responses, the hormone and its main function are correctly matched?
Character which is found in snakes but not in frogs.
Which one of the following statements regarding human skull is incorrect?
Which of the following 'structure-function' combinations is incorrect?
Which of the following indicate two features found in the organisms of the same phylum? A : Heart absent; endoskeleton present., B : Heart absent; jointed legs present., C : Anus absent; tentacles present around the mouth., D : Anus absent: show asexual reproduction.
One of the applications of DNA sequencing metagenomics is
Correct statement regarding structures of human eye and its functions.
In man, simple squamous epithelium is seen in the
Four structures present in protists are as follows:A - Multicellular thallus,B - Contractile vacuole,C - Pellicle,D - Cell wall. Organisms having A, B, C and D are respectively
Correct statement regarding non-vascular plants.
Which of the following cannot be a population?
Select the response with three threatened organisms.
Correct statement regarding skeleton of animals.
The site where most of the HCO3- reabsorbed in the human nephron.
Which of the following is correct regarding prokaryotic organisms?
Select the response that correctly indicates the part of the human brain and its function.
Correct regarding accommodation of eye.
Biotic stress which would be included in the induced structural and chemical defense mechanism.
Which one of the followings is a branched storage polysaccharide?
Correct statement regarding non-vascular plants.
According to the World Health Organization criteria, the minimum weight of a person of height 153 cm should have in order to consider him as non-malnourished
Incorrect statement regarding photosynthesis,
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding DNA? 
Leydig cells
Which of the following processes in plants increases in the absence of light?
Which one of the following does not contribute to increase the rate of heart beat in man?
Which of the following responses correctly indicates the main nitrogenous excretory product of the given animal group?
Examples for plants showing homospory are
Select the correct statement regarding human skeleton.
A feature seen in the sexual reproduction of all land plants is
Select the correct statement regarding cell junctions.
A feature seen in the sexual reproduction of all land plants is
Which of the following statement regarding gestation period of female is correct?
Correct regarding formation of urine.
Select the correct statement regarding the reproductive system of human females.
Which of the following is different to prokaryotes and eukaryotes
Which of the following terrestrial biomes shows the least variation in temperature?
Which of the following responses indicates the biomes in increasing order of average annual rainfall/precipitation?
Which of the following is not a function of human large intestine?
The electron transport chain
A common function both to epithelial and connective tissue.
Select the plant growth substance which stimulates elongation of internodes and activates the enzymes in seed germination,
Some features of cells are as follows. A - Presence of plasma membrane, B - Presence of 70S ribosomes, C - Occurrence of mitosis, D - Presence of subcellular components suspended in cytosol. Which of the above features are common to prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells?
Which of the following statements is correct regarding human cranial bones?
Four events of aerobic respiration of a glucose molecule are as follows. A - Release of two CO, molecules by decarboxylation, B - Oxidation of NADH and FADH, C - Oxidative phosphorylation, D - Substrate level phosphorylation.The correct sequence of occurrence of above events is
Which of the following statements regarding homoeostasis in man is incorrect?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding the energy pyramids?
Which of the following statement is correct regarding human blood cells?
Restriction maps are mostly important in
Which of the following comparisons between C3, and C4, photosynthesis in plants is incorrect?
Which of the following comparisons between C3, and C4, photosynthesis in plants is incorrect?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect?
Some characteristics of two species of plants are given below. Species A : Sporophyte is dominant; gametophyte is reduced; sporophyte and gametophyte are photosynthetic and independent., Species B : Sporophyte is dominant and photosynthetic; gametophyte is reduced and partially dependent on sporophyte. Species A and B are respectively
Pons Varolii of humans is involved in
Which of the following is incorrect regarding the use of tissue culture techniques in the propagation of plants?
Select the correct statement regarding the synthesis of polypeptides.
Select the incorrect statement regarding nervous systems.
Which of the following is incorrect regarding the root apex of monocotyledonous plants?
Select the correct statement regarding human vertebrae.
Which of the following is an incorrect statement?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding phloem transport?
Select the correct answer regarding organisms which uses contractile vacuole for osmotic regulation.
Chromosomal theory of inheritance states that
Coliform bacteria are used as indicator organisms of faecal pollution because
Which of the following statements regarding subcellular components of an eukaryotic cell is correct?
Which one of the following features distinguishes Nephrolepis from Pogonatum?
Which of the following combinations of triplet codes in the corresponding mRNA and tRNA is the correct representation of the triplet code of CAT in DNA?
The cells that mediate internal defences in innate immunity in man are
the human skull,
Food preservation is based on the following principles. a - Prevention of entry of microorganisms into food, b - Prevention of growth and activity of microorganisms in food, c - Removal or killing of microorganisms in food. Canning of food is based on which of the above principles?
Which of the following structures can be seen in Phylum Mollusca as well as in Phylum Platyhelminthes?
Correct comparisons between vessel elements and tracheids.
Select the correct statement regarding antibodies.
Select the incorrect statement regarding an expert in genetic counselling.
An ecological pyramid of biomass is often an inverted pyramid in which one of the following ecasystems?
Which of the following organelles in the cell is involved in lipid synthesis?
Select the incorrect statement regarding male reproductive system?
The male gametophyte of a flowering plant is the
Which of the following compounds is an intermediate in both respiration and photosynthesis?
Which of the following is the least needed to do PCR mechanism?
Which of the following is correct regarding human thoracic vertebra?
Select the correct statement regarding the menstrual cycle.
Select the incorrect statement regarding human epididymis.
Solute potential of solution A was - 1450 kPa and that of solution B was - 1120 kPa. After the tissues had come to equilibrium with the solutions, it was found that 50% of the cells in the peel immersed in solution A were plasmolysed. Which of the following would be closed to the pressure potential of the cells immersed in solution B?
Which one of the following ecological pyramids is most to be inverted?
A character is not found in gymnosperms and angiosperms but found in a vascular plant,
Which one of the following is an in-situ method of conservation?
Which one of the following eyepiece X objective lens combinations is the best for clearly observing stomata of a leaf?
Which one of the following cannot be considered as an example for mutualism?
Which of the following is incorrect statement regarding breast feeding?
Photosynthesis is most efficient in
Which of the following statements regarding nucleic acids is incorrect?
Which of the following is not homeostasically regulated in the internal environment of man?
Which of the following terrestrial biomes shows the least variation in temperature?
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding enzymes?
Which of the following is en incorrect statement?
Three gases that contribute to acid rain, global warming and ozone layer depletion are respectively
Correct statement regarding C4 path way of photosynthesis.
Which one of the following organelles does not have a membrane?
Which of the following is considered as an artificial group in the classification of organisms?
Which one of the cell types are developed during the invasion of allergens into the human body?
Deficiency of which one of the following elements does not cause chlorosis
Select the response with the correct example for different types of feeders seen among animals. Type of feeders Example
Incorrect regarding tissue - function.
The process that takes place during the glycolysis not in the Krebs cycle.
Which of the following statements regarding plasma membrane is correct?
Which one of the following contains magnesium?
During meiosis crossing over takes place in
In man, maturation of sperm takes place in
Anaemia is a deficiency syndrome of which of the following vitamins?
Human sympathetic nervous stimulation
Which one of the following statements regarding a comparison of life cycles of Nephrolepis and Selaginella is incorrect?
Which of the following statements regarding nervous systems is correct?
Two phyla that include organisms having glycogen as the main stored food are
In the context of biodiversity,endemic species are
Some statements regarding biochemical evolution are given below. P - Small organic molecules such as amino acids and nitrogenous bases were first formed in early oceans., Q - Small organic molecules polymerized to form organic macromolecules., R - Protocells contained nucleic acids enclosed in a membrane. Which of the above statements is/are correct?
Which one of the following features distinguishes Nephrolepis from Pogonatum?
If the blood group of a person is B+ he cannot be transfused with blood from a donor whose blood type is
Of the ollowing groups of organisms, which one became extinct first?
Incorrect statement regarding human saliva,
Which of the following comparisons between C3, and C4, photosynthesis in plants is incorrect?
If the energy available for the second trophic level of an ecosystem with four trophic levels is 9000 kJm -2Year-1 and the amount used for respiration by primary producers is 80000 kJm-2Year-1, the gross and net primary productivity are respectively in kJm-2Year-1
Which of the following is incorrect regarding glycolysis?
Select the correct statement regarding human ribs.
When plant leaves are exposed to light,the stomata open. Which of the following will not happen in guard cells when stomata open?
Correct statement regarding non-vascular plants.
A compound formed during ethyl alcohol fermentation, lactic acid fermentation and aerobic respiration is
Which of the following is the correct statement regarding neurones?
Which of the following generally can be seen in the efferent arteriole of the human nephron?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding aquaculture in Sri Lanka
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding human vertebral column
Which of the following is thc major objective of the secondary treatment stage in an industrial waste water treatment plant?
Which of the following statements regarding the digestion of nucleic acids in food in man is correct?
Which onc of the following features is common to both decomposes and producers in an ecosystem?
Correct regarding haemoglobin molecule,
An enzyme identifies the wrong addition of nucleotide in DNA replication.
Which of the following statements regarding the human brain is correct?
Which of the following statements is incorrect?
Which of the following structures of an angiosperm is diploid?
One characteristic of each of the organisms labelled as A, B, C and D is as follows. (A) Heterosporous 4, (B) Gametophyte is photosynthetic, (C) Seedless, (D) Thalloid gametophyte. The organisms A, B, C and D in correct order are
Which of the following responses indicates the biomes in increasing order of average annual rainfall/precipitation?
Correct statement regarding pituitary gland,
Which of the following excretory structures of animals opens into digestive tract?
An animal phylum, all the animals have bisexuality,
Which of the following statements regarding companion cells is correct?
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding respiration?
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the human alimentary canal?
Which of the following statement is correct regarding organelles?
Plants which show heteromorphic alternation of generations always
The white blood cells associated with antibody production ure
Number of bones that make the thoracic cage in human.
Human lymphatic system is
Which one of the following statements regarding a comparison of life cycles of Nephrolepis and Selaginella is incorrect?
Last wave of an ECG denotes
Which of the following statements is correct regarding the culture media used to grow microbes in the laboratory?
Which of the following is correct regarding prokaryotic organisms?
All the next generation was tall plants. When F1 plants were inbred and obtained 75% of tall plants and 25% of dwarf plants. When these F1 tall plants were subjected to a test cross, 66% were tall and entire were dwarf in the generation. Which of the following statement is correct regarding the above cross?
Plants which show heteromorphic alternation of generations always
Select the incorrect statement regarding human epididymis.
Which one of the following animals has the highest risk of becoming extinct in the near future?
Pair of plant growth substances that induce seed germination
Select the correct statement regarding aquaculture.
Which of the following statement is correct regarding cork cambium?
Which one of the following is a type of intercellular connection found in plant cells?
A cross between pure line short-black haired and pure line long-white haired Guinea pigs produced short-black haired offspring in the F1, generation. If there were 33 offspring in the F, generation of this cross, how many of them would have short-black hair according to Mendel’s laws?
The vitamin that is involved in the synthesis of RNA is
After birth, anteriorly convex curvatures of the vertebral column of humans are developed in the
Some nucleotides
In human scapula,
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding enzymes?
Which of the following is not caused by changes of water potential?
Consider the statements A and B given below. A - Seedless vascular plants are evolutionarily closer to hornworts than to mosses.,B - Seeedless vascular plants bear spores. Which of the following is correct regarding the above statements?
Select the correct statement regarding the reproductive system of human females.
Which of the following statements regarding the epidermis of plants is correct?
Experiments to measure the rate of transpiration of plant shoots may fail if the shoots are not cut underwater. This is because
Three basic principles of food preservation as follows: a-Prevention of entry of microorganisms into food in asepsis, b-Prevention of growth and activity of microorganisms in food, c-Removing or killing of microorganisms in food. Adding chemicals is based on which of the above principle /principles?
Most of the CO2 liberated during respiration of glucose arise from the reactions of
Which one of the following statements regarding the digestive enzymes of man is incorrect?
Which one of the following microorganisms is responsible for causing illness due to food intoxications?
Which of the following is correct regarding prokaryotic organisms?
Which of the following statements regarding asexual reproduction of animals is correct?
Their first child is of blood group O. The identical twin sister of this woman married a man of blood group AB and the possible blood groups of their children are
Select the correct statement regarding human eye.
In humans, inhibin is secreted by
Chlorofluorocarbon mainly contributes to
When a plant cell is at the stage incipient plasmolysis
Natural killer cell
In the human brain, cardiovascular centre is located in the
Fishing gear used in island reservoirs of Sri Lanka are
Which one of the following represents the monosaccharide composition of sucrose? 
Which one of the following organisms is not found in a marine ecosystem?
Biome that covers the twenty percent of the land surface of the earth.
Which one of the following includes animals that have only single circulation?
The base Adenine (A) of DNA of an organism forms 23.3% of its composition. Which of the followin is the most likely base composition of its DNA?
Which of the following biochemical processes in the nitrogen cycle is effected by Nitrosomonas?
Collenchyma cells differ from parenchyma cells because collenchyma cells
Which one of the following statements is incorrect? 
Anti-B antibodies are present in the blood plasma of persons having which of the following blood groups?
In correct statement regarding human blood cells.
In which of the following, will the release of (i) result in the stimulation of (ii). A : (i) Gastrin (ii) Production of gastric juice, B : (i) Cholecystokinin (ii) Secretion of gastric juice, C : (i) Secretin - (ii) Release of bicarbonate ions from pancreas
Which of the following statement is correct regarding microscopes?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding regulation of respiration in man?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding ecological niche?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding a transverse section of human testis?
Which one of the following features distinguishes mosses from ferns?
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding enzymes?
Nephrolepis is differs from Sellaginella because of
Select the correct statement regarding human skeletal system.
Which of the following indicates the blood vessels in correct sequence that a molecule of urea passes from its site of production to site of excretion in man?
Which of the following comparisons between C3, and C4, photosynthesis in plants is incorrect?
Correct statement regarding the structure and function of the human respiratory system
Which of the following is found both in pancreatic juice and intestinal juice?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding ovulation in women?
Two true breeding plants, one with dark blue flowers and one with white flowers were crossed. The F1 offspring of this cross produced light blue flowers. When the F1 progeny was self crossed, 1:2:1 ratio of plants with dark blue, light blue and white flowers was observed. What genetic character is shown by these results?
Which one of the following, characteristics is common to all bacteria, fungi and virus?
Which of the following statement regarding bones of human skull is incorrect?
Which are of the following combinations regarding vitamins - deficiency is incorrect?
Which of the following statements regarding nervous systems is correct?
Ribosomes found in the chloroplasts of a plant cell
In which of the following responses, the hormone and its main function are correctly matched?
Which of the following statement is incorrect regarding human heart?
In man, sickle cell anaemia is an example for
Which of the following may be a consequence of hypotension?
One characteristic of each of the organisms labelled as A, B, C and D is as follows. (A) Heterosporous 4, (B) Gametophyte is photosynthetic, (C) Seedless, (D) Thalloid gametophyte. The organisms A, B, C and D in correct order are
Which of the following statements regarding human reproduction is correct?
Which of the following statements regarding the responses of plants to light is correct?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding human teeth?
Sri Lankan elephants are considered to be
Which of the following comparisons between C3, and C4, photosynthesis in plants is incorrect?
An organism consists of excretory structure with cilia.
B lymphocytes of humans
Which of the following 'tissue - location' combinations is correct regarding the human body?
B lymphocytes of humans
Nephrolepis is differs from Sellaginella because of
Mature sperms in man are stored until ejaculation in the
One characteristic of each of the organisms labelled as A, B, C and D is as follows. (A) Heterosporous 4, (B) Gametophyte is photosynthetic, (C) Seedless, (D) Thalloid gametophyte. The organisms A, B, C and D in correct order are
A person who had an infection of measles rarely develops the same infection again. This is an example of
Which of the following is not a function of human small intestine?
Select the correct statement regarding spermatogenesis.
Vaccination of healthy children against poliomyelitis is an example of
Which of the following is mot a function of epithelial tissues?
ATP
Organic compound that has a glycosidic bond
Which of the following is incorrect regarding seed of Cycas ?
The number of oxygen molecules that combine with a single molecule of haemoglobin is
Which of the following statements regarding enzymes is correct?
Which of the following is the correct statement regarding human digestive enzymes?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding human pancreas?
The hormone secreted by anterior pituitary which has non-tropic effects is
Which of the following is most likely to happen if tricuspid valve of the human heart does not close properly?
In the Calvin cycle of photosynthesis,
Which one of the following is an incorrect statement regarding human ventilation?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding human ovaries?
In the cell cycle,
The connective tissue that does mot contain fibres under normal conditions is
Atmospheric air is the only source for which of the following elements required by plants?
Which of the following is a genetically modified vaccine used in active immunization?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding the hypothalamus of man?
Which one of the following is unlikely to cause hypertension in man?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding renal calculi?
Which of the following is not associated with the opening of stomata?
Which of the following statements regarding human male reproductive system is correct?
Incorrect statement regarding cyanobacteria,
Location of the gland that regulate the rate of heart beat and muscle tone.
Select the correct statement regarding human brain.
Which of the following international agreements may contribute to reduce global warming? A - Kyoto protocol, B - Basel convention, C - Montreal protocol, D - Cartagena protocol
A feature seen in the sexual reproduction of all land plants is
Some actions of the autonomic nervous system of man are given below.. A - Inhibits salivary gland secretion,B - Stimulates activity of pancreas,C - Promotes emptying of urinary bladder. Which of the above actions is/are carried out by the parasympathetic division?
Which of the following plant growth regulators - function in not indicated correctly?
Select the correct statement regarding breast milk
Which one of the following IUCN categories includes the organisms that are most likely to become extinct first?
Which one of the following elements when absent will produce deficiency symptoms first in the mature parts of the plant?
Which of the following is an incorrect statement?
Which one of the following statements of comparison between cellular respiration and photorespiration is
Location of AV node in the human heart.
Which of the following is common to lactic acid fermentation, alcoholic fermentation and aerobic respiration?
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding a nerve impulse?
Which of the following appear smallest under the highest magnification available in a light microscope?
Not a product of anaerobic respiration,
Clearing of forests contributes to
Biome that covers the twenty percent of the land surface of the earth.
Incorrect combination regarding human sensation
Which of the following statements regarding circulatory systems of animals is correct?
Select the incorrect statement regarding human blood.
In which of the of the external feature, can the genotype be known as soon as it is seen?
Which one of the following is incorrect regarding endodermis of plant roots?
Which of the following biochemical processes requires ATP?
Some characteristics of two species of plants are given below. Species A : Sporophyte is dominant; gametophyte is reduced; sporophyte and gametophyte are photosynthetic and independent., Species B : Sporophyte is dominant and photosynthetic; gametophyte is reduced and partially dependent on sporophyte. Species A and B are respectively
Which of the following fish combinations is suitable for polyculture in a fresh water environment in Sri Lanka with no decaying plant marner?
Which of the following is an incorrect statement?
Least influenced factor in the stomatal movements.
Select the incorrect statement regarding reproduction of human males.
Correct statement of the followings.
A-Production of steroids, B-Production of cellulose and pectin,C-Detoxification of peroxides,D-Helps in digestion. Functions of smooth endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus respectively.
End product of gene expression
Genetic makeup of an organism is
Which one of the following is the major objective of employing activated sludge system in an industria waste water treatment plant?
Select the incorrect statement. When compared to asexual methods of reproduction sexual reproduction: is advantageous because
A character is not found in gymnosperms and angiosperms but found in a vascular plant,
Male gametophyte of flowering plant
In angiosperms, meiosis occurs during the formation of
Which of the following is an incorrect statement?
Correct statement regarding secondary growth of stem or root.
Correct combination regarding sterilization methods - materials.
Which of the following statements regarding chlorophyll is correct?
In the light dependant reaction of photosynthesis,
Which of the following tenmy best deseribes organisms whieh fix atmospheric CO2 and obtain energy from inorganic chemleals?
Occurs in both C3 and C4 plants,
Which of the following statement regarding photosynthesis in plants is correct?
Which of the following statements regarding phloem transport according to pressure-flow hypothesis is correct? .
Correct statement regarding water.
Which of the following comparisons regarding endotoxins and exotoxins is incorrect?
Which one of the following helps the phloem translocation least?
Which of the following statements regarding nervous systems is correct?
Which of the following responses indicates the biomes in increasing order of average annual rainfall/precipitation?
Indian carps are widely used for aquaculture in Sri Lanka mainly because
Which of the following statement is correct regarding water potential, solute potential and pressure potential?
A common function both to epithelial and connective tissue.
Which of the following biomes are present between the equator and tropic of cancer of the earth?
DNA polymerase obtained from thermophilic bacteria is used for PCR because
In angiosperms, meiosis occurs during the formation of
It is believed that the major reason for the increase carbon dioxide concentration in the atmosphere during the last two centuries is
Which of the following is incorrect regarding skeletal muscle?
Select the incorrect statement regarding the proximal convoluted tubule of human nephron.
In spermatogenesis of man, reduction of chromosome number from diploid to haploid occurs during the production of
Which one of the following statements is not an action due to stimulation of parasympathetic nervous system?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding plant cell wall?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding enzymes?
In which one of the following trophic levels of a paddy field ecosystem, the interspecific competion is most likely to be seee on the application of weedicides?
Which of the following is a non-reducing sugar?
Correct regarding cell wall
Colour of human skin
Which of the following statement regarding respiratory process in human is correct?
Which of the following is not transported by phloem tissue in plants?
When a leaf of a maize plant placed in the sunlight,
Which of the following statement is correct regarding ecological pyramids?
Which of the following is not a national reserve under protection of the fauna and flora act of Sri Lanka?
Select the pair which is most likely to have the highest number of common characteristics.
Which of the following statements regarding homoeostasis in man is incorrect?
Which one of the following is a feature that can be seen in Lycophyta but not in Pterophyta?
During the plant development, lateral roots arise from
Which of the following is not associated with pathogenicity of microorganisms?
Some parts of human brain and their functions are given below. Which of the following part of the brain - function combination is incorrect?
Select the correct statement regarding human eye.
Which of the following microorganisms are used in biological extraction of metals from low grade metal ores?
Which of the following takes place in the metaphase of mitosis?
Which of the following character cannot be considered to prokaryotes?
Least significant character in the determination of an ecological niche of a species.
In humans ear
Which one of the following represents the first stable product of C-4 photosynthesis?
Which one of the following is an incorrect statement regarding human liver?
Ommatidia are present in
Select the correct statement regarding human skeletal system.
Which one of the following statements regarding human skeletal muscle contraction is incorrect?
One characteristic of each of the organisms labelled as A, B, C and D is as follows. (A) Heterosporous 4, (B) Gametophyte is photosynthetic, (C) Seedless, (D) Thalloid gametophyte. The organisms A, B, C and D in correct order are
In the cell cycle,
Select the correct statement regarding human hormones.
a-Constriction of blood vessels, b-Secretion of sweat, c-Shivering, d-Contraction of hair erector muscle. Which of the above is / are heat gain mechanism / mechanisms?
Not a disadvantage of inbreeding,
Only one of the examples given in correct, Select the pattern of inheritance with correct example.
Which of the following statement regarding human kidney is incorrect?
Which one of the following enzymes in body fluids of human can destroy bacterial cell walls?
DNA polymerase in PCR machinery.
Select the incorrect statement regarding reproduction of human males.
Which of the following statements regarding subcellular components of an eukaryotic cell is correct?
Which of the following element show deficiencies such as crinkled leaves, reduced inter node lengths in plants.
In an ecosystem, gross primary productivity and the amount of energy available at the third trophic level were determined to be 2000kJ m-2 year-1 and 11kJ M-2 year-1 respectively. If 90% of energy is lost when flows from one trophic level to the next, the amount of energy wvsed for respiration by the primary producers in this ecosystem is
Select the incorrect statement regarding physiology of neurones.
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding human luteinizing hormone?
Which one of the following statements regarding human skeletal muscle contraction is incorrect?
Incorrect statements regarding fungi,
Which one of the following factors can be considered as least important in the vertical transport of water through the xylem in a tall tree?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding ovulation in women?
Which of the following is not common both to aerobic and anaerobic respiration?
The type of immunity produced in an individual following injection of tetanus toxoid is known as
Which of the following statements regarding nervous systems is correct?
Dry Patana grasslands in Sri Lanka are seen in
Incorrect statements regarding water potential.
Correct statement regarding human respiratory system.
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding the upper limb of man?
Correct statement regarding gross structure of human stomach,
Which of the following is incorrect regarding living characteristics of organisms?
Which of the following responses indicates the biomes in increasing order of average annual rainfall/precipitation?
At the time of origin of photosynthetic organisms
Select the correct statement regarding human skeletal system.
Which of the following biomes are present between the equator and tropic of cancer of the earth?
In dicotyledoneae plants
Which of the following statements regarding the lymphatic system of man is correct?
Which of the following is not likely to be found in human milk?
Select the correct statement regarding breast milk
In the classification of organisms, the taxon phylum was introduced by
Which of the following structures can be seen in annelids as well as in arthropods?
Which of the following organisms Is responsible for Infections due to the production of endotoxins in food spoilage?
Which one of the following is not a monosaccharide?
Events that occur after the membrane potential of a neuron is changed above the threshold value are given below. A : K+ channels open and K+ outflow., B : Na+ channels open and Na+ inflow., C : Membrane becomes repolarized., D : Membrane becomes depolarized. Select the correct sequence of above events.
Which of the following is not a function of smooth endoplasmic reticulum(smooth ER)?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding ovulation in women?
Events that occur after the membrane potential of a neuron is changed above the threshold value are given below. A : K+ channels open and K+ outflow., B : Na+ channels open and Na+ inflow., C : Membrane becomes repolarized., D : Membrane becomes depolarized. Select the correct sequence of above events.
Select the incorrect statement regarding human blood.
Which of the following is the best combination of cell junction, its location and function?
Mernstematic cells
Which of the following biomes are present between the equator and tropic of cancer of the earth?
a- Amino acids,b- Galactose, c- Fatty acids,d- White blood corpuscles, e- Interferons. Found in human milk
Three genera with circular chromosomes, histones associated with DNA and several kinds of RNA polymerases are respectively
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding mutations?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding glycolysis?
Which of the following microorganisms is not directly used as food or food supplements?
Which of the following statements best explains the evolutionary advantage of meiosis?
In the third trimester,
Which of the following does not contribute to global warming?
Mernstematic cells
Which of the following statement regarding photosynthesis in plants is correct?
Plants which show heteromorphic alternation of generations always
Select the incorrect statement regarding human saliva,
Which of the following are found only in plants?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding enzymes?
Which one of the following organelles in the cell synthesizes lipids?
Which of the following statements regarding regulation of breathing in man is correct?
In man sodium and calcium ions are important for normal health. Which one of the following requires both of these ions?
Select the response which correctly indicates the disease and its causative microorganism.
Plant hormones that regulate cell division, promote leaf senescence and enhance apical dominance are respectively
In man, which one of the following aortic arches becomes the carotid arteries?
Which of the following is not related to prions?
Enzymes
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding Cycas?
Mineral elements mainly required for maintaining acid base balance, nerve functioning and formation of bones in man in correct sequence are
Which one of the following statements on implantation of human embryo is correct?
Which of the following can be found in both birds and reptiles?
Which of the following statement is correct regarding defense mechanisms of the human body?
Select the response with the correct match of the hormone and its main function.
The structure of human ear concerned with static equilibrium is
Which of the following compounds is an intermediate in both respiration and photosynthesis?
Select the correct statement regarding human skeletal system.
In dicotyledonous plants
Which of the following is incorrect regarding skeletal muscle?
Opening of stomata.
Which one of the following features is not unique to Phylum Echinodermata?
If proteins are present in the urine of a person, which of the following structures could have been damaged?
In human skull,
Which of the following features of Nephrolepis does not indicate that it is adapted to land habit better than Bryophytes?
Which of the following genera contains facultatively anaerobic microorganisms?
In eukaryotic cells, in addition to nucleus, DNA is present in
Which of the following responses indicates the biomes in increasing order of average annual rainfall/precipitation?
Which of the following organelles in plant cells converts fats into carbohydrates?
Select the correct statement regarding the female reproductive system.
Which of the following 'structure-function' combinations is incorrect?
Which of following cannot be considered as a trace element in plant composition?
The metabolic activities of which of the following organism are used in the industrial manufacture of wine?
Select the correct statement regarding human skeleton.
During the evolution of organisms, coelom was first developed in
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding action potential?
Which one of the following statements is incorrect regarding human cortisol hormone?
Proteins
Which of the following is incorrect regarding seed of Cycas ?
Select the correct statement of the followings.
Some structures seen among animals are as follows. Protonephridia, mantle and nematocysts. Organisms showing each of the above structures in correct sequence are
Incorrect regarding tissue - function.
Which of the statements in the following comparison between Calvin's cycle and Kreb's cycle is incorrect?
Which of the following statements regarding the respiratory system of man is correct?
Select the incorrect statement regarding human brain.
Correct regarding combination of respiratory pigment - place where it is found?
Select the Incorrect statement regarding inheritance.
In routine testing of water samples for consumption, why the presence of indicator organisms such as coliform bacteria tested instead of presence of the pathogenic microorganisms?
Select the correct statement regarding human skeleton.
Which of the following statement regarding DNA finger printing is incorrect?
Chlorosis in older leaves may be caused due to deficiency of which of the following elements?
To which of the following phyla does Selaginella belongs?
Correct regarding typical vertebra of human.
Probability for a person who has straight thumb and attached ear lobe from a heterozygous persons to the above character.
Which of the following terrestrial biomes shows the least variation in temperature?
Correct statement regarding the basic plan of the human blood circulatory system.
Which one of the following reproductive structures is unpaired?
Select the correct statement regarding human brain.
Which of the following is the major criterion used to determine whether the plants or animals living in one particular habitat to a single banks
Which of following statements is most important in explaining the Darwin-Wallace theory?
Select the incorrect statement regarding an action potential of a human motor neurone.
Which one of the following statements is correct regarding inflammatory response?
Which of the following statements regarding human lactation is incorrect?
Which of the following compounds is an intermediate in both respiration and photosynthesis?
Photorespiration
Which of the follwing statements regarding the digestive system of man is correct?
Which of the following 'structure-function' combinations is incorrect?
Which one of the following types of immunity develops in a person recovering from an infectious disease like measles?
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding meiosis?
Which of the following statements regarding depletion of ozone layer is incorrect?
Which of the following combination represents a community in a particular ecosystem?
Several features seen among some chordates are as follows. A - Keratinized structures, B - Internal fertilization, C - Parthenogenesis, D - Marine life. Which of the above features can be seen in the organisms of classes Reptilia, Aves and Mammalia?
Which one of the following structures in the cell does not contain RNA?
Which of the following features is present only in one class of the phylum Chordata?
Which of the following is incorrect regarding the role of Mg in plant nutrition?
Which one of the following statements regarding nutrition of plants is incorrect?
A genetically modified organism is different from other members of the same species because
Which of the following statements regarding lipids is correct?
Incorrect regarding auto immune diseases
Plants which show heteromorphic alternation of generations always
Asexual reproduction by simple cell division/fission is seen in
Which of the following is not a reason for vast diversity that exist in the living world?
Select the incorrect statement regarding an action potential of a human motor neurone.
Some actions of the autonomic nervous system of man are given below.. A - Inhibits salivary gland secretion,B - Stimulates activity of pancreas,C - Promotes emptying of urinary bladder. Which of the above actions is/are carried out by the parasympathetic division?
Eon / eons that in include / includes the Cenozoic era?
Select the correct answer based on the following two statements.A - A function of connective tissues is providing support,B - Reticular fibres provide strength to connective tissues.
Turner syndrome is best iltustrated in which of the following persons?
In routine testing of water samples for consumption, why the presence of indicator organisms such as coliform bacteria tested instead of presence of the pathogenic microorganisms?
Which of the following statements is incorrect regarding forests in Sri Lanka?
In sex linked inheritance of humans,
Select an incurable viral disease from the given list.Some events that occur at the source during phloem translocation of angiosperms according to pressure flow hypothesis are as follows. A : Flow of water into sieve tube from xylem, B : Generation of positive pressure inside the sieve tube, C : Reduction of water potential inside the sieve tube. Correct sequence of the above events is
A secretion which is secreted by prostate gland for nutrition
Which of the following statements regarding photosynthetic pigments is correct?
A damage to which part of the human nephron given below is most likely to produce glucose positive urine?
Which of the following statements is correct regarding Cyanobacteria?
Which of the following statements regarding human pelvis is incorrect?
Correct statement regarding the designing of pest resistant GM plants.
Which of the following statement is correct regarding alleles?
